Add getting started doc (#888)
elastic/ecs: docs/using-getting-started.asciidoc

[[ecs-getting-started]]

> === Getting Started

Reviewer: ++

Maybe we could start with a brief explanation of what ECS and the benefits of mapping your events to ECS? e.g. ECS defines a [common set of fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/ecs/current/ecs-field-reference.html) to be used when storing data in Elasticsearch. The goal of ECS is to enable and encourage users of Elastic to normalize event data in order to better analyze, visualize and correlate the data represented in their events. 

Agree with Mat that we should make users aware of our out-of-the-box ECS compliant integrations - should link to this page: https://www.elastic.co/integrations

Adopting ECS is a two-step process. First, normalizing your data sources to align
with the ECS field sets, and then familiarizing yourself with those fields for querying

> and aggregating your data. Let's take a look at how an event's contents can be mapped to

Reviewer 2: @webmat - "contents" is correct (like contents of a folder)

> and aggregating your data. Let's take a look at how an event's contents can be mapped to

Reviewer 3: TIL about [content vs contents](https://getproofed.com/writing-tips/word-choice-content-vs-contents/) ☝🏼

Thanks for confirming, Ben

> and aggregating your data. Let's take a look at how an event's contents maps to the ECS field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and aggregating your data. Let's take a look at how an event's content maps to the ECS field
```
Maybe: `how an event maps to ECS field sets`

> sets and how using a common schema for your data can simplify the search experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sets, and how using a common schema for your data can simplify the search experience.
```

[float]
==== Translating Data Sources

> In order for events to align to ECS, some sort of parsing will usually be necessary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To align events to ECS, some sort of parsing will usually be necessary
```

| http.version
| 1.1

// ==============================================================

| source.address
| 10.42.42.42

// ==============================================================

| source.ip
| 10.42.42.42

// ==============================================================

| url.original
| `/content`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.device.name
| Other

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.name
| Chrome

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.original
| `Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_4) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/83.0.4103.106 Safari/537.36`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.full
| Mac OS X 10.15.4

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os_name
| Mac OS X

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.version
| 10.15.4

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.version
| 83.0.4103.106

|=====

> Some items to note on the mapping example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some items to note about this mapping example:
```

* As many ECS fields as possible are mapped from the original event
* Several `event` fields are populated based on ECS categorization
* The raw log is preserved in the `event.original` field

> * For the simplicity of this example some field sets such as `agent.*`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* For the simplicity of this example some field sets, such as `agent.*`
```

>   and `host.*` have been omitted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  and `host.*`, have been omitted.
```

[float]

> ==== Simplified Search

Reviewer 4: I agree, a short intro to the reasons helps frame the rest of the doc.  Here is how I start an email to encourage use of ECS by new customers:

> The Elastic Common Schema (ECS) is an open source specification developed with support from the Elastic user community. ECS defines a common set of fields to be used with data in Elasticsearch, such as logs and metrics.

> ECS enables and encourages the normalization of event data, so that you can better analyze, visualize, and correlate the information represented in your events.  This drives efficiency in your operations.

With ECS defining a normalized schema across all of your data sources, querying
against those sources is simplified. Consider searching for a particular source IP
address prior to adopting ECS. All the various data sources and their field mappings
would need to be considered in your query:

[source,sh]
-----------
src:10.42.42.42 OR client_ip:10.42.42.42 OR apache.access.remote_ip:10.42.42.42 OR
context.user.ip:10.42.42.42 OR src_ip:10.42.42.42
-----------

With all sources mapped to ECS, the query becomes much simpler:

[source,sh]
-----------
source.ip:10.42.42.42
-----------

> Not only does this simplify writing queries, but any saved or shared queries between

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not only does this simplify writing queries, but saved queries shared queries between
```

> users become much more obvious. Any unfamiliar fields that align with ECS can also
> be reviewed in the <<ecs-field-reference>> to gain better understanding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
users are much more obvious. To gain familiarity with ECS fields, you can also take a look at the <<ecs-field-reference>> section.
```

[float]
==== Unified Visualizations

With normalized data from different data sources, building insightful visualizations

> across sources is also greatly simplified. From a single, centralized dashboard, events

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
across sources is simple. From a single, centralized dashboard, events
```

> from web servers, IDS/IPS devices, and firewalls can be aggregated, visualized, provides
> drill-down, and then pivoted from into deeper investigations. Centralized monitoring of
> diverse data sources has been greatly simplified normalizing to ECS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from web servers, IDS/IPS devices, and firewalls can be aggregated and visualized, and enhanced with
drill-downs and pivots for delving into deeper investigations. Centralized monitoring of
diverse sources is straightforward with normalized ECS data.
```
Not sure this edit keeps your original intent.

Author: It does - thanks for the suggestions!

| host.hostname
| mbp.example.com
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.ip
| [ "192.168.1.100" ]
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.family
| darwin
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.kernel
| 19.4.0
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.name
| Mac OS X
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.version
| 10.15.4
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.name
| Chrome
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.full
| Mac OS X 10.15.4
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.name
| Mac OS X
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.version
| 10.15.4
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

> | user_agent.os.version

Reviewer 3: That's a Chrome version! 😂 

```suggestion
| user_agent.version
```

![Laser Eyes!](https://webmat.keybase.pub/funny-stuff/dalai_lasers.gif)

Author: 😂 It also was missing the final column and wasn't showing up in the rendered doc either! Cleaned up on the latest commit.

[[ecs-getting-started]]
=== Getting Started

ECS enables and encourages users to normalize event data in order
to better analyze, visualize, and correlate their events. Collected events
can be normalized at ingest time, consistently searched across indices,

> and visualized predictably. When adopting an Elastic solution, such as

Reviewer 3: To make sure this stands out more, I'd start a new paragraph at "When".

Perhaps rephrase "Note that when..."

https://www.elastic.co/observability[Observability] or https://www.elastic.co/security[Security],

> all of this work is already done! Elastic provides an extensive set of

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
all events will map to ECS out of the box. Elastic provides an extensive set of
```

I think it's worth being a little more explicit that "adopting ECS" is not much work with the solutions.

// ===============================================================

| event.dataset
| apache.access

// ==============================================================

| event.kind
| event

// ===============================================================

| event.category
| [ "web", "access" ]

// ==============================================================

| event.outcome
| success

|=====

Lastly, existing field values can be interpreted or enriched using a processor, with the results
populating additional fields in the final event.

* The `user_agent` processor extracts details from the original user agent string, `user_agent.original`.
* IP fields like `source.ip` can provide enrichment using the `geopip` processor to add information about the
  location and autonomous system number (ASN) associated with an IP address.
* The `registered domain` processor reads a field containing a hostname and writes the registered domain to
  another field
* Event collectors, such as https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/libbeat/current/beats-reference.html[Beats], can enrich
  each event with metadata from the machine's hosting provider (cloud) and/or from the host machine (host).

> 

Reviewer 3: Perhaps preface this final table with something like

> Here are some examples of additional fields added by metadata or parser processors.

Also I think we could trim the list of fields we list in the table, to keep it short. A few of each is enough to illustrate, let's keep those that will speak to people most. Perhaps remove

* host.mac
* host.os.build
* either host.os.family or host.os.platform
* user_agent.device.name

Author: Good idea. I was worried the third table was maybe going a little _too_ deep for a getting started section, but I think scaling back is a good way to help address. 👍

| host.mac
| [ "00:00:5E:00:53:23" ]
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.build
| 19E287
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.family
| darwin
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.kernel
| 19.4.0
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.name
| Mac OS X
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.platform
| darwin
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| host.os.version
| 10.15.4
| `add_host_metadata`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.device.name
| Other
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.name
| Chrome
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.full
| Mac OS X 10.15.4
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

> | user_agent.os_name

Reviewer 3: This should be `user_agent.host.os.name` ;-)

Author: Good 👀 thank you! Updating to `user_agent.os.name`

| Mac OS X
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.version
| 10.15.4
| `user_agent`

// ==============================================================

| user_agent.os.version
| 83.0.4103.106

> | `user_agent`

Reviewer 3: copy/pasta vs row above?
